Hexenwail Release Build
Version: 0.8.0-beta.r30
Built: 2026-09-21 20:49:05 UTC

Included platforms:
- linux-x86_64/          Linux 64-bit (portable, any distro)
- windows-x86_64/        Windows 64-bit

On NixOS, install from the flake rather than from this zip:
  nix run github:bobberb/hexenwail
That builds against your own nixpkgs, so the binary's rpaths point at store
paths you actually have.  A prebuilt Nix-store binary could not.

No game data is included -- Hexenwail is an engine and ships no Raven content.
Put a "data1" directory (pak0.pak, pak1.pak) from a GOG, Steam or disc copy of
Hexen II beside the executable.  If you don't own it, each platform directory
carries a helper that downloads the free 1997 three-level demo and verifies it:

- linux-x86_64/get_demo.sh          run it from that directory
- windows-x86_64/get_demo.cmd       double-click, or run from cmd

The demo data comes from the uHexen2 project and is not ours to relicense.

Compiled gamecode (gamecode/):
This release also carries the Hexen II game logic rebuilt from source, with
fixes that are not in Raven's 1997 progs.dat -- chiefly dropped backpacks
silently vanishing in co-op and deathmatch.  The engine already loads it from
beside the executable on both platforms, so there is nothing to install and
nothing of yours is overwritten.  Launch with -vanillaprogs to ignore it and
use your own install's gamecode instead; the "Gamecode:" line the engine
prints on load always names the file it actually used.

gamecode/ is the same three files kept separately.  On Windows it is the copy
the engine loads, since it sits beside glh2.exe; on Linux the engine loads its
own from the platform directory and this is a spare.  Copying it into a Hexen
II folder is needed only to feed a DIFFERENT engine, and that overwrites files
retail keeps loose with no .pak copy to fall back on -- back up first.  Read
gamecode/README.txt; it covers all of this, and lists one deliberate behaviour
change to the Crusader's Glyph of the Ancients.

Crash reporting (Windows):
The Windows build carries Dr. MinGW, so a crash writes "glh2.RPT" beside
glh2.exe by itself -- nothing to install, nothing to turn on.  Send that file
and qconsole.log with any crash report; between them they name the source file
and line the game died on.

The .exe ships with its debug symbols, which is why those reports are readable.
It costs about 4 MB of download and nothing else: the machine code is identical
to a stripped build and the symbols are never loaded while you play.

Licenses:
- licenses/COPYING.GPL2          Engine (GPL-2.0+)
- licenses/LICENSE.SDL3           SDL3 (Zlib)
- licenses/COPYING.ogg-vorbis    libogg/libvorbis (BSD-3)
- licenses/LICENSE.drmingw       Dr. MinGW crash handler (LGPL-2.1+)
- licenses/LICENSE.libdwarf      libdwarf, via Dr. MinGW (LGPL-2.1+)
- licenses/LICENSE.zlib          zlib, via Dr. MinGW (Zlib)
- dr_mp3, dr_flac, dr_wav are public domain (dr_libs by David Reid)

Built with Nix flakes
